Our project is Java block system.
We are going to create a one block which is a name as Connected Global and it is given a name given
by me.
You can change another name, any other name.
It's not compulsory.
You can choose any other name, but I prefer the name as you connect to Blue in this block.
Or we can system.
What I'm going to do.
I'm going to add some admins and I'm going to connect to people using Java.
Also, I just want to add one police station information.
Also, I also giving the information page for this server.
So nearby police station.
I'm going to try some logic behind this.
So.
This project is based on GBK JSP, Java Servlet and the server deployment I am using here.
Ajax, I will tell you what is Ajax and each and every time later.
So our project is Java block system and we are going to create one block system platform.
We can say with the Java app basically.
So we are going to use that.
So our project is.
Basically develop a block system platform.
We are going to develop a block switching platform.
For the people around the globe using Java servlet technology.
So our is aim is very basic, but what we are going to develop, it's very important here because we
are performing with this Java.
So we need to write some Java servlet pages, we need to write some JSP pages and JavaScript also and
further consider your I.
I'm going to use some default images and some things to add and create one beautiful UI for my website
or we can web application with Java.
So I am using your database also.
I will tell you later how I'm going to use the database and how I am going to connect it to the my database.
So steps of over development is project setup.
I'm going to set up my project and how I'm going to deploy it.
Then understanding different tools because project setup is just not writing new code.
We need to mention all the libraries, each and everything.
Then understanding different tools.
What I'm going to use here, what is the different tools I'm going to use here?
What is the significance of CSS files here?
Each and every time I'm going to mention here.
Then some Java basics.
You should know the Java basics.
I will teach you the Java basics.
Also here, what I'm going to perform.
But sometimes due to time constraint and each and everything, I'm going to use some default quotes
that will I will explain later, but use that then basics of database.
What is the database and what is the skill statements I'm going to use here?
I'm going to use your relational database, no special database like noise database.
I'm not going to use it.
I'm going to use your only relational database with the relational queries, some JSP basics, then
Java servlet and database, GBC connections and deployment on the server when you deploy it on the server.
So that's it.
Our steps of development.
So just recall those types of development projects better understand the different tools used the basics,
basics of database, JSP Basics, Java, servlet and GDB C connection and deployment on the server.
So let us see the what is the things I'm going to use here?
What are the requirements each and everything.
So application requirements.
Let me tell you, what is the application requirements?
Not always.
Our requirements are specified with our code or anything.
We need to mention the application requirements also.
So Java program to display web content.
Basically, I'm not going to write total Java program.
The thing is, for that purpose, I'm going to create a connection and I'm going to tell you what I'm
going to do here and I'm going to write just one Java code here.
What is it?
So we can say pure Java code.
Other than this, I'm going to imitate the JSP or later in HTML files to write Java programs.
So Java programs, basic knowledge, also basic concepts of skills.
So you should know the basic knowledge of Java.
If you have some prior knowledge of a skill also it will be very beneficial while developing this project
because I'm not going to explain the age and everything.
Yeah, I'm just giving the overview of this.
Then some Java basic concepts.
Also, I'm going to tell you here is HTML and this is frontend.
I'm not going to tell each and every part of HTML.
I will try to explain that, but I will tell you you can use your bootstrap also for the better group.
I'm not going to use your bootstrap, but I'm just telling you you can use bootstrap and also website
for log in admin or you learned or you can say as a part of you you can use student.
But I'm mentioning as admin only you can change it to the people also who log in here.
So let me tell you, you can use it as a people.
Also, I'm considering this is for students only, so that is common people for admin due administrative
actions and for the common people.
These are the two users or you can say use cases of our application.
We will require JDK 1.8 Why?
I'm telling JDK 1.8 is the Glass Glossary servers and Java E version in our case is towards JDK 1.8.
You can use JDK 16 also it will support it is NetBeans I'm going to use here and Oracle databases my
relational database.
You can choose Gillespie server, you can directly import to your file.
No need to check for that or you can check for ID.
So that's our application requirements.
Let's see our functional requirements.
What is the functional application I'm going to use here?
Functional requirements post is admin.
There are few admin roles here.
I'm going to suppose you post this can create an post topic to be discussed and report respectively
after getting logged in.
So basically it can pose the topic or report of that delete report like some abusive matters or explicit
content.
You can delete that report or we can post can view all reports topics to be discussed.
You can search post and you can check.
I'm considering your police station as the reports also.
So that part also you can handle.
Help in any report to pursue further.
Give it to the media, etc..
You can do or can view the previously posted comments post on comments on each report or topic.
So what it can be handle it can offer is that there is a city ABC and in that city Y is a locator area
and that's very unsafe.
So people can put that common people x, y, z area is very unsafe and they can pose the picture also.
So admin can give you that and it can inform to that police station, nearby police station.
So I am considering this scenario.
You can choose any other.
So this block system is two way.
It can be reporting matter also for the reporting matter and for the smart city.
But also you can use so common people can view all the reports after going getting login search and
report the police station like I need to report the police station.
It's not very useful in case file emergency but you can report through this platform also can view previously
posted comments and post on comments each and everything you can check.
So that's it about the functional requirements.
So in the next part, I'm going to tell you what is the solid basics?
But before that, what I'm going to explain is here is I'm going to explain the setup of our project.
So this is mine.
It means once you have installed the NetBeans, I'm using 12th version and it means you can check for
stable version.
You can look like this.
Or there is one new window also for you.
What is needed here?
What to file three new project.
So.
Once you hit a new project.
You can see this is my new project and you can see Java Web or do web application.
Next, you can choose the location.
I'm.
Connect.
Look.
So I'm putting like this Connect Globe, you can use dedicated library for storing libraries.
So I'm mentioning this heat index.
You can choose server I to your server this next don't choose anything here because we are not going
to use here and click finish.
You can use Java server faces which are everything you can use.
That's not very matters here, but remember the thing I mentioned here?
So it will take time to check everything.
It will create the indexed HTML page for you.
Keep it as it is.
We are going with only JSP pages.
We are not including external pages as our front end part.
We are going with JSP pages because I don't want to write your Java code which connects to the HTML,
so I will embedded my JSP or we can say job accord in HTML only.
So it will be very helpful while developing the code.
So on the left side, you can see this and this is my code.
Let me zoom this.
So this is the default code which created all already to do, right?
Content to supply the content.
Everything you can see.
On this.
You can check the projects here.
Once you click this, it will load the file.
You can see the here is libraries file, source packages, file with packages, file configuration files.
If you want to add JDK, you need to install the Java X file.
Also, let me add that Java folder inside my listings.
Let me add a Java X which is basically contains Java because while developing this, I understood that
my JDK doesn't contain this or does not contain this Java X Java.
So if you want, you can download it from the web.
It's freely available and just hit enter.
It will load that file so it will take time to load that very once it is loaded.
You can see here that's left.
Also, you need some database connectors for the oracle.
You need GBC, Oracle GBK Connector 14.10 according to your GDC or Oracle version.
And for my skill you need my spell connector.
So that's it for the setup.
If you want to check whether it's running or not, what you are going to do, click, click on this
connect loop, right click.
You can see many options here.
Click, hit, clean and build.
So if your output window is not opening, what you are going to do, click window, click here output
so you can see the output window.
So you can use this as output.
So let me drag it in because this is my coding area and I can check output from here only.
So let me just.
Okay.
So this is my output thing.
And you can see Billy successful if you want to run.
What you are going to do.
Click here.
Enter, run.
So it will move to the directly and then say blast server visiting the references connect global is
running and really successful when this is when this is done you can check this is my global localhost
2002 or if your code is 88 localhost, go to your.
Before domain XML in blast free server and change 82 to 2002.
Because what happens?
Oracle Database Service is also 88.
So it will move to the part that which is basically not very useful content.
I can see that added and this also blocks so simultaneously both can be run and there will be probably
more error when you are doing this.
So changes to the 2002 as I changed here.
So this is my ID and the successful not so that's it about how we can deploy this everything.
So this is basically just a servlet.
Let me close this.
So what I'm going to do.
You need to.
You don't need this indexed or HTML, but directly don't just delete this.
What are you going to do?
Click here.
Web pages.
Click New.
And let me.
Open this or the pages with New Jersey.
So when this is done.
New Jersey.
Change it to the index.
JSP because this is loading file.
Always remember index is basically for the load index and click here enter.
Once this is done you can check your index.
JSP is done and it will write content for you directly.
Let me be quite part.
What I'm going to do is.
In Page.
So let me.
So as soon as they start running, you can check here and let me delete this part.
So what you're going to do is click here, delete and delete this part, so it will delete it.
So if you go to this part, let me copy this because I'm going to.
We'll here.
Let me run this again.
Oh so you can check index or JSP pages, JSP pages and now running, which is contents helloworld.
So that's how we can develop a JSP.
We don't change the indexed JSP because it's in this file and though what we can say configuration is
loaded with index only.
So this is how I'm going to perform this.
So in the next part, what I'm going to mention here or what I'm telling you, we are going to perform
these actions.
I will explain the servlet part and I'm proceeding with the functional requirements.
I will check for each and every functional requirement step by step.
And I will tell you that within this section we are going to perform five administrative actions and
three common people actions.
As I mentioned earlier, with the functional requirements.
Before proceeding with the project, you should have some prior knowledge about Java and it's good.
So I will tell you what is the basics of servlet?
What is the basics of JSP in the later part of this tutorial?